
2.0.1
=====

	* Fix SHA256 and RIPEMD on AMD64 platform.
        * Deleted Demo/ directory.
	* Add PublicKey to Crypto.__all__


2.0
===

	* Added SHA256 module contributed by Jeethu Rao, with test data
	  from Taylor Boon.

	* Fixed AES.c compilation problems with Borland C.  
	  (Contributed by Jeethu Rao.)

	* Fix ZeroDivisionErrors on Windows, caused by the system clock
	  not having enough resolution.
	
        * Fix 2.1/2.2-incompatible use of (key not in dict),
	  pointed out by Ian Bicking.

	* Fix FutureWarning in Crypto.Util.randpool, noted by James P Rutledge.

	
1.9alpha6
=========

	* Util.number.getPrime() would inadvertently round off the bit
	  size; if you asked for a 129-bit prime or 135-bit prime, you
	  got a 128-bit prime.

	* Added Util/test/prime_speed.py to measure the speed of prime
 	  generation, and PublicKey/test/rsa_speed.py to measure
	  the speed of RSA operations.

	* Merged the _rsa.c and _dsa.c files into a single accelerator
	  module, _fastmath.c.  

	* Speed improvements: Added fast isPrime() function to _fastmath,
	  cutting the time to generate a 1024-bit prime by a factor of 10.
	  Optimized the C version of RSA decryption to use a longer series
	  of operations that's roughly 3x faster than a single
	  exponentiation.  (Contributed by Joris Bontje.)

	* Added support to RSA key objects for blinding and unblinding 
	  data. (Contributed by Joris Bontje.)

	* Simplified RSA key generation: hard-wired the encryption
	  exponent to 65537 instead of generating a random prime;
	  generate prime factors in a loop until the product 
	  is large enough.
	
	* Renamed cansign(), canencrypt(), hasprivate(), to 
	  can_sign, can_encrypt, has_private.  If people shriek about
	  this change very loudly, I'll add aliases for the old method
	  names that log a warning and call the new method.
	

1.9alpha5
=========

        * Many randpool changes.  RandomPool now has a
          randomize(N:int) method that can be called to get N
          bytes of entropy for the pool (N defaults to 0,
          which 'fills up' the pool's entropy) KeyboardRandom
          overloads this method.

        * Added src/winrand.c for Crypto.Util.winrandom and
          now use winrandom for _randomize if possible.
          (Calls Windows CryptoAPI CryptGenRandom)

        * Several additional places for stirring the pool,
          capturing inter-event entropy when reading/writing,
          stirring before and after saves.

        * RandomPool.add_event now returns the number of
          estimated bits of added entropy, rather than the
          pool entropy itself (since the pool entropy is
          capped at the number of bits in the pool)

        * Moved termios code from KeyboardRandomPool into a
          KeyboardEntry class, provided a version for Windows
          using msvcrt.

        * Fix randpool.py crash on machines with poor timer resolution.
          (Reported by Mark Moraes and others.)

        * If the GNU GMP library is available, two C extensions will be 
          compiled to speed up RSA and DSA operations.  (Contributed by 
          Paul Swartz.)

        * DES3 with a 24-byte key was broken; now fixed.  
	  (Patch by Philippe Frycia.)


1.9alpha4
=========

        * Fix compilation problem on Windows.

        * HMAC.py fixed to work with pre-2.2 Pythons
        
        * setup.py now dies if built with Python 1.x
        

1.9alpha3
=========

        * Fix a ref-counting bug that caused core dumps.  
          (Reported by Piers Lauder and an anonymous SF poster.)
        

1.9alpha2
=========

        * (Backwards incompatible) The old Crypto.Hash.HMAC module is
          gone, replaced by a copy of hmac.py from Python 2.2's standard
          library.  It will display a warning on interpreter versions
          older than 2.2.
        
        * (Backwards incompatible) Restored the Crypto.Protocol package,
          and modernized and tidied up the two modules in it,
          AllOrNothing.py and Chaffing.py, renaming various methods
          and changing the interface.
          
        * (Backwards incompatible) Changed the function names in
          Crypto.Util.RFC1751.
        
        * Restored the Crypto.PublicKey package at user request.  I
          think I'll leave it in the package and warn about it in the
          documentation.  I hope that eventually I can point to
          someone else's better public-key code, and at that point I
          may insert warnings and begin the process of deprecating
          this code.

        * Fix use of a Python 2.2 C function, replacing it with a 
          2.1-compatible equivalent.  (Bug report and patch by Andrew
          Eland.)  

        * Fix endianness bugs that caused test case failures on Sparc,
          PPC, and doubtless other platforms.

        * Fixed compilation problem on FreeBSD and MacOS X.
        
        * Expanded the test suite (requires Sancho, from 
          http://www.mems-exchange.org/software/sancho/)

        * Added lots of docstrings, so 'pydoc Crypto' now produces 
          helpful output.  (Open question: maybe *all* of the documentation
          should be moved into docstrings?)
          
        * Make test.py automatically add the build/* directory to sys.path.

        * Removed 'inline' declaration from C functions.  Some compilers
          don't support it, and Python's pyconfig.h no longer tells you whether
          it's supported or not.  After this change, some ciphers got slower,
          but others got faster.
          
        * The C-level API has been changed to reduce the amount of
          memory-to-memory copying.   This makes the code neater, but 
          had ambiguous performance effects; again, some ciphers got slower
          and others became faster.  Probably this is due to my compiler
          optimizing slightly worse or better as a result.

        * Moved C source implementations into src/ from block/, hash/, 
          and stream/.  Having Hash/ and hash/ directories causes problems
          on case-insensitive filesystems such as Mac OS.

        * Cleaned up the C code for the extensions.
                
        
1.9alpha1
=========

        * Added Crypto.Cipher.AES.

        * Added the CTR mode and the variable-sized CFB mode from the
          NIST standard on feedback modes. 
        
        * Removed Diamond, HAVAL, MD5, Sapphire, SHA, and Skipjack.  MD5
          and SHA are included with Python; the others are all of marginal
          usefulness in the real world.

        * Renamed the module-level constants ECB, CFB, &c., to MODE_ECB,
          MODE_CFB, as part of making the block encryption modules 
          compliant with PEP 272.  (I'm not sure about this change;
          if enough users complain about it, I might back it out.)
        
        * Made the hashing modules compliant with PEP 247 (not backward
          compatible -- the major changes are that the constructor is now 
          MD2.new and not MD2.MD2, and the size of the digest is now 
          given as 'digest_size', not 'digestsize'.

        * The Crypto.PublicKey package is no longer installed; the
          interfaces are all wrong, and I have no idea what the right
          interfaces should be.  


1.1alpha2
=========
        * Most importantly, the distribution has been broken into two
parts: exportable, and export-controlled.  The exportable part
contains all the hashing algorithms, signature-only public key
algorithms, chaffing & winnowing, random number generation, various
utility modules, and the documentation.

        The export-controlled part contains public-key encryption
algorithms such as RSA and ElGamal, and bulk encryption algorithms
like DES, IDEA, or Skipjack.  Getting this code still requires that
you go through an access control CGI script, and denies you access if
you're outside the US or Canada.

        * Added the RIPEMD hashing algorithm.  (Contributed by
Hirendra Hindocha.)

        * Implemented the recently declassified Skipjack block
encryption algorithm.  My implementation runs at 864 K/sec on a
PII/266, which isn't particularly fast, but you're probably better off
using another algorithm anyway.  :)

        * A simple XOR cipher has been added, mostly for use by the
chaffing/winnowing code.  (Contributed by Barry Warsaw.)

        * Added Protocol.Chaffing and Hash.HMAC.py.  (Contributed by
Barry Warsaw.)  

        Protocol.Chaffing implements chaffing and winnowing, recently
proposed by R. Rivest, which hides a message (the wheat) by adding
many noise messages to it (the chaff).  The chaff can be discarded by
the receiver through a message authentication code.  The neat thing
about this is that it allows secret communication without actually
having an encryption algorithm, and therefore this falls within the
exportable subset.  

        * Tidied up randpool.py, and removed its use of a block
cipher; this makes it work with only the export-controlled subset
available.

        * Various renamings and reorganizations, mostly internal.

        
1.0.2
=====

        * Changed files to work with Python 1.5; everything has been
re-arranged into a hierarchical package.  (Not backward compatible.)
The package organization is:
Crypto.
        Hash.
                MD2, MD4, MD5, SHA, HAVAL
        Cipher.
                ARC2, ARC4, Blowfish, CAST, DES, DES3, Diamond, 
                IDEA, RC5, Sapphire
        PublicKey.
                DSA, ElGamal, qNEW, RSA
        Util.
                number, randpool, RFC1751

        Since this is backward-incompatible anyway, I also changed
module names from all lower-case to mixed-case: diamond -> Diamond,
rc5 -> RC5, etc.  That had been an annoying inconsistency for a while.
        
        * Added CAST5 module contributed by <wiml@hhhh.org>.

        * Added qNEW digital signature algorithm (from the digisign.py
I advertised a while back).  (If anyone would like to suggest new
algorithms that should be implemented, please do; I think I've got
everything that's really useful at the moment, but...)

        * Support for keyword arguments has been added.  This allowed
removing the obnoxious key handling for Diamond and RC5, where the
first few bytes of the key indicated the number of rounds to use, and
various other parameters.  Now you need only do something like:

from Crypto.Cipher import RC5
obj = RC5.new(key, RC5.ECB, rounds=8)

(Not backward compatible.) 

        * Various function names have been changed, and parameter
names altered.  None of these were part of the public interface, so it
shouldn't really matter much.

        * Various bugs fixed, the test suite has been expanded, and
the build process simplified.

        * Updated the documentation accordingly.

        
1.0.1
=====
        
        * Changed files to work with Python 1.4 .

        * The DES and DES3 modules now automatically correct the
parity of their keys.
        
        * Added R. Rivest's DES test (see http://theory.lcs.mit.edu/~rivest/destest.txt)


1.0.0
=====

        * REDOC III succumbed to differential cryptanalysis, and has
been removed. 

        * The crypt and rotor modules have been dropped; they're still
available in the standard Python distribution. 

        * The Ultra-Fast crypt() module has been placed in a separate
distribution.

        * Various bugs fixed.
